Hello and welcome back to the course on Tableau.
Today we're going to start slowly moving into the second part of the challenge which is to understand
are those 10 new cities into which the company should start investing heavily in terms of marketing
where the return on that investment will be the highest.
And secondly we're going to talk about highlighting so the highly inefficient tableau which will help
us slowly transition into this part of the challenge.
Going to be quite an interesting tutorial.
So let's get straight into it.
All right.
So I'm going to create a new worksheet and here I'm going to create yet another map.
And right off the bat here's a quick quiz for you.
What happens if I just drag city into the map.
Do I have all 150 cities here.
Is this the correct way to visualize the cities of this company where the company operates.
Just pause this video.
Have a think about it for a second.
If you're following along then look around and look for hints.
And in three two one.
Now we're going to have a look at the answer.
The answer is no because over here at the bottom you can see unknown values if we click here you'll
see that there are ambiguous locations for example a good star Aurora and so on because there are actually
a few of these cities in the US.
So all of these cities are ambiguous and Tableau doesn't know which one to pick out of all of them.
So there we go.
That is not the proper approach to visualize these cities.
The proper approach is to seek this out and will drag state into here or it will drag state into the
map.
And now if we click the plus now we expand.
So we have both state and city in the geographies.
And now you can see that there is no unknowns or there are no unknowns.
That is because now tableau knows exactly which city to pick in case if there is in the US a city with
the same name in several locations it will just look at the state and then pick the city in that state.
So that was a quick fun quiz.
And now what we're going to do is we're going to adjust it up a little bit.
So we're going to add revenue as the size then we're going to add revenue as a color as well.
And as you can see already here we are seeing some of these cities pop up.
So what else we can do to make this more aesthetic transparency may be set at 80 something percent.
Just a little transparency.
Give it a border.
So now we can really see where the city is located so low smaller cities have brought less revenue.
Larger cities bring more revenue.
And the question is Where are our ten new cities.
How do I identify them here.
Well the quickest way is to take our parameter which is new expansion and just drag it onto color.
So that way we can see right away whether in ten new cities are located.
So there is a rock forward there is Patterson Joliet Chattanooga didn't even know these cities were
in the US college station.
So there we go.
So if you're from one of these cities and a big a huge shout out to you you're a part of our reservation.
All right.
But the the thing here is that now we've lost that wonderful information where the color was also linked
to revenue so this is indeed one of the ways to visualize this series and then you can click here to
highlight them like that as we've read discussed.
But now how do we do the same.
But at the same time don't use this color as the way we're identifying these cities is they're all a
different way to do it.
And there is a way it's called the highlighting feature.
So let's controls at that and return back to the previous version.
Now what we can do is we can take the new expansion parameter and put it into detail instead of color
and now it's in detail.
And it's not really doing anything it is affecting aggregation but it's not adding much because we already
have the city which is unique for our aggregation and we could even put store I.D. into here it won't
do anything new because there is no two cities with the same name in our data set.
That's why store I.D. and a new expansion don't really change aggregation but they are now being taken
into account.
But how do we know use this new expansion in order to quickly identify the new 10 stores.
Well if you click dropdown here and you select show highlighter and not show filter but show high later
then a high letter will appear here.
So I'm actually going to move it over here and what I can do now is I can just select if I click here
you can either type it up or because we only have two categories here.
It's very simple you can just like new.
As you can see it highlights those because like old it highlights all the old cities and you can actually
just click and that way you've highlighted all of the new cities.
Very easy like that so that you can see one two three four five six seven eight nine 10 cities we've
highlighted very easy and very non-intrusive so it's not actually using up any of our other features
possession like color or shape or size.
We're not using them we just want to subtly highlight something and then just drag it into detail and
then use the highlighter option very powerful tool for data exploration so you can very quickly identify
those objects that you want to pinpoint.
So there you go.
Hopefully this will be another new tool in your arsenal when you're working with Tableau and I can't
wait to see on the next tutorial where we will dive more into the analysis and understand what's the
difference between the cities and what kind of trends are going on there.
Can't wait to see you there.
Until next time.
Happy analyzing.